

The First Presidency
OUR DEAR YOUNG MEN AND YOUNG WOMEN, we

have great confidence in you. You are beloved sons and
daughters of God and He is mindful of you. You have
come to earth at a time of great opportunities and also of
great challenges. The standards in this booklet will help you
with the important choices you are making now and will
yet make in the future. We promise that as you keep the
covenants you have made and these standards, you will be
blessed with the companionship of the Holy Ghost, your
faith and testimony will grow stronger, and you will enjoy
increasing happiness.
In all that you do, stay focused on the temple. In the
temple you will receive the greatest of all the Lord’s blessings, including marriage for time and all eternity. Keeping
the standards in this booklet will help you be worthy to
attend the temple, where you can perform sacred ordinances
for your ancestors now and make essential covenants for
yourself in the future.

ii

Our Father in Heaven has placed great trust in you. He
has a work for you to do. Seek His guidance in prayer, and
counsel with your parents and leaders. The decisions you
make now will set the course for much of what will follow
during your mortal life and throughout eternity.
We testify that God lives. It is our fervent prayer that you
will remain steadfast and valiant throughout your lives and
that you will trust in the Savior and His promises. As you
do this, you will be an influence for good in helping to
build the kingdom of God and prepare the world for the
Second Coming of the Savior.
The First Presidency


Agency and
Accountability
Wherefore, men . . . are free to choose
liberty and eternal life, through the
great Mediator of all men, or to choose
captivity and death. 2 Nephi 2:27
Heavenly Father has given you agency, the ability to
choose right from wrong and to act for yourself. Next to
the bestowal of life itself, the right to direct your life is
one of God’s greatest gifts to you. While here on earth,
you are being proven to see if you will use your agency to
show your love for God by keeping His commandments.
The Holy Ghost can guide you in using your agency
righteously.
You are responsible for the choices you make. God is
mindful of you and will help you make good choices, even
if your family and friends use their agency in ways that are
not right. Have the moral courage to stand firm in obeying
God’s will, even if you have to stand alone. As you do this,
you set an example for others to follow.
While you are free to choose your course of action, you are
not free to choose the consequences. Whether for good or
bad, consequences follow as a natural result of the choices
you make. Some sinful behavior may bring temporary,

Entertainment and Media

worldly pleasure, but such choices delay your progress and
lead to heartache and misery. Righteous choices lead to
lasting happiness and eternal life. Remember, true freedom
comes from using your agency to choose obedience; loss of
freedom comes from choosing disobedience.

© plainpicture/hasengold

You are also responsible for developing the talents and
abilities Heavenly Father has given you. You are accountable to Him for what you do with your talents and how
you spend your time. Choose to do many good things of
your own free will.
Matthew 25:14–29; Moroni 7:15–19; Doctrine and Covenants
58:27–28

Are my choices leading me toward lasting happiness?


Dating
Virtue loveth virtue; light cleaveth
unto light. Doctrine and Covenants 88:40
A date is a planned activity that allows
a young man and a young woman to get
to know each other better. In cultures
where dating is acceptable, it can help
you learn and practice social skills,
develop friendships, have wholesome
fun, and eventually find an eternal
companion.
You should not date until you are at least
16 years old. When you begin dating,
go with one or more additional couples. Avoid going on
frequent dates with the same person. Developing serious
relationships too early in life can limit the number of other
people you meet and can perhaps lead to immorality. Invite
your parents to become acquainted with those you date.
Choose to date only those who have high moral standards
and in whose company you can maintain your standards.
Remember that a young man and a young woman on a date
are respon­sible to protect each other’s honor and virtue.
Plan dating activities that are safe, positive, and inexpensive
and that will help you get to know each other. Go only to
places where you can maintain your standards and remain
close to the Spirit.

Young men generally take the initiative in asking for and
planning dates. Always be kind and respectful when you
ask for a date or when you accept or decline one. While
on a date, be courteous as you listen to others and express
your own feelings.
As you enter your adult years, make dating and marriage
a high priority. Seek a companion who is worthy to go to
the temple to be sealed to you for time and all eternity.
Marrying in the temple and creating an eternal family are
essential in God’s plan of happiness.
1 Corinthians 11:11; Doctrine and Covenants 46:33

What can I do to be a righteous influence on those I date?


Dress and
Appearance
Know ye not that ye are the temple
of God, and that the Spirit of God
dwelleth in you? . . . The temple of
God is holy, which temple ye are.
1 Corinthians 3:16–17

Your body is sacred. Respect it and do
not defile it in any way. Through your
dress and appearance, you can show
that you know how precious your body
is. You can show that you are a disciple
of Jesus Christ and that you love Him.
Prophets of God have continually
coun­­­seled His children to dress
modestly. When you are well groomed
and modestly dressed, you invite the
companionship of the Spirit and you can be a good influence
on others. Your dress and grooming influence the way you
and others act.
Never lower your standards of dress. Do not use a special
occasion as an excuse to be immodest. When you dress
immodestly, you send a message that is contrary to your

identity as a son or daughter of God. You also send the
message that you are using your body to get attention and
approval.
Immodest clothing is any clothing that is tight, sheer, or
revealing in any other manner. Young women should avoid
short shorts and short skirts, shirts that do not cover the
stomach, and clothing that does not cover the shoulders
or is low-cut in the front or the back. Young men should
also maintain modesty in their appearance. Young men and
young women should be neat and clean and avoid being
extreme or inappropriately casual in clothing, hairstyle, and
behavior. They should choose appropriately modest apparel
when participating in sports. The fashions of the world will
change, but the Lord’s standards will not change.
Do not disfigure yourself with tattoos or body piercings.
Young women, if you desire to have your ears pierced,
wear only one pair of earrings.

Dress and Appearance

Show respect for the Lord and yourself by dressing
appropriately for Church meetings and activities. This is
especially important when attending sacrament services.
Young men should dress with dignity when officiating in
the ordinance of the sacrament.
If you are not sure what is appropriate to wear, study the
words of the prophets, pray for guidance, and ask your
parents or leaders for help. Your dress and appearance now
will help you prepare for the time when you will go to the
temple to make sacred covenants with God. Ask yourself,
“Would I feel comfortable with my appearance if I were in
the Lord’s presence?”
Genesis 1:27; Alma 1:27

How does my testimony of the gospel influence
my choice of clothing?


Education
Whatever principle of intelligence
we attain unto in this life, it will rise
with us in the resurrection.
Doctrine and Covenants 130:18

Education is an important part of
Heavenly Father’s plan to help you
become more like Him. He wants you
to educate your mind and to develop
your skills and talents, your power to act
well in your responsibilities, and your
capacity to appreciate life. The education you gain will be valuable to you
during mortality and in the life to come.
Education will prepare you for greater
service in the world and in the Church. It will help you better
provide for yourself, your family, and those in need. It will
also help you be a wise counselor and companion to your
future spouse and an informed and effective teacher of
your future children.
Education is an investment that brings great rewards and will
open the doors of opportunity that may otherwise be closed
to you. Plan now to obtain an education. Be willing to work
diligently and make sacrifices if necessary. Share your educational goals with your family, friends, and leaders so they can
support and encourage you.

Education

Maintain an enthusiasm for learning throughout your life.
Find joy in continuing to learn and in expanding your
interests. Choose to actively participate in the learning
opportunities available to you.
Your education should include spiritual learning. Study the
scriptures and the words of the latter-day prophets. Partici­
pate in seminary and institute. Continue throughout your
life to learn about Heavenly Father’s plan. This spiritual
learning will help you find answers to the challenges of life
and will invite the companionship of the Holy Ghost.
Alma 37:35; Doctrine and Covenants 88:77–80

How can an education benefit me and my future family?

Entertainment
and Media
If there is anything virtuous, lovely,
or of good report or praiseworthy,
we seek after these things. Articles of Faith 1:13
You live in a day of marvelous technologies that give
you easy access to a wide variety of media, including the
Internet, mobile devices, video games, television, movies,
music, books, and magazines. The information and entertainment provided through these media can increase your ability
to learn, communicate, and become a force for good in the
world. However, some information and entertainment can
lead you away from righteous living. Choose wisely when
using media, because whatever you read, listen to, or look at
has an effect on you. Select only media that uplifts you.
Satan uses media to deceive you by making what is wrong
and evil look normal, humorous, or exciting. He tries to mislead you into thinking that breaking God’s commandments
is acceptable and has no negative consequences for you or
others. Do not attend, view, or participate in anything that is
vulgar, immoral, violent, or pornographic in any way. Do not
participate in anything that presents immorality or violence as
acceptable. Have the courage to walk out of a movie, change
your music, or turn off a computer, television, or mobile device
if what you see or hear drives away the Spirit.
Entertainment and Media

Pornography in all forms is especially dangerous and
addictive. What may begin as an unexpected exposure or a
curious exploration can become a destructive habit. Use of
pornography is a serious sin and can lead to other sexual
transgression. Avoid pornography at all costs. It is a poison
that weakens your self-control, destroys your feelings of selfworth, and changes the way you see others. It causes you to
lose the guidance of the Spirit and can damage your ability to
have a normal relationship with others, especially your future
spouse. It limits your ability to feel true love. If you encounter
pornography, turn away from it immediately.
If you are involved in pornography, cease now. Seek the
help you need. Your parents and bishop can help you
take the steps necessary to repent and rid yourself of this
destructive habit.
Take care that your use of media does not dull your sensi­tivity
to the Spirit or interfere with your personal relationships with


Entertainment and Media

others. Spending long periods of time using the Internet or a
mobile device, playing video games, or watching television
or other media can keep you from valuable interactions with
other people. Be careful that your use of social media does
not replace spending time with your family and friends.
Guard your safety and the safety of others by taking great
care about what personal information and images you share
through technology. Do not communicate anything over the
Internet or through texting that would be inappropriate to
share in person. Obey the laws that govern sharing music,
movies, and other copyrighted items.
If you are not sure whether something is appropriate to watch
or listen to, talk to your parents and other adult leaders. The
Holy Ghost will give you strength to make correct choices.
Moroni 10:30; Doctrine and Covenants 121:45

How does my choice of media influence my
thoughts and actions?

Family
The family is ordained of God. Marriage
between man and woman is essential to
His eternal plan. . . . Happiness in family
life is most likely to be achieved when
founded upon the teachings of the Lord
Jesus Christ. “The Family: A Proclamation to the World”
Being part of a family is a great blessing. Your family can
provide you with companionship and happiness, help you
learn correct principles in a loving atmosphere, and help you
prepare for eternal life.
Strong families require effort. Your family will be blessed as
you do your part to strengthen it. Be cheerful, helpful, and
considerate of family members. Many problems in the home
come from family members speaking and acting selfishly or
unkindly. Seek to be a peacemaker rather than to tease, fight,
and quarrel. Show love for your family members each day.
Share your testimony with your family through words and
actions. Your righteous example can make a difference in
strengthening your family.
Honor your parents by showing love and respect for them.
Obey them as they lead you in righteousness. Willingly
help in your home. Participate in wholesome family activities and traditions. Join your family in family prayer, family
scripture study, and family home evenings. Keeping these

commandments strengthens and unifies families. If your
family does not do these things together, pray and study
the scriptures yourself. Your example may encourage your
family members to join you.
Strengthen your relationships with your brothers and sisters.
They can become your closest friends. Support them in their
interests, and help them with challenges they may be facing.
God desires that all of His children come into the world as
part of an eternal family with a mother and father who love
and care for each other and for their children. If this is not
your experience, be patient and continue to live righteously.
Look for worthy role models. Prepare now to fulfill your
divine roles as a husband or wife and as a parent. Commit to
marry in the temple and establish your own eternal family.
Ephesians 6:1–3; Mosiah 4:14–15

How sensitive am I to the needs and desires of my
family members?

Friends
Inasmuch as ye have done it unto one
of the least of these my brethren, ye
have done it unto me. Matthew 25:40
Everyone needs good and true friends.
They will be a great strength and blessing
to you. They will influence how you think
and act, and even help determine the person you will become. They will help you
be a better person and will make it easier
for you to live the gospel of Jesus Christ.
Choose friends who share your values so
you can strengthen and encourage each
other in living high standards.
To have good friends, be a good friend. Show genuine interest in others; smile and let them know you care about them.
Treat everyone with kindness and respect, and refrain from
judging and criticizing those around you. Do not participate
in any form of bullying. Make a special effort to be a friend
to those who are shy or lonely, have special needs, or do
not feel included.
As you seek to be a friend to others, do not compromise
your standards. If your friends urge you to do things that are
wrong, be the one to stand for the right, even if you stand
alone. You may need to find other friends who will support

you in keeping the commandments. Seek the guidance of
the Holy Ghost as you make these choices.
As you strive to live the gospel, you will encourage your
friends to do likewise. Set an example of keeping the commandments, participating in Church activities, preparing to
serve the Lord throughout your life, and remaining worthy
to attend the temple.
Invite your friends of other faiths to your Church meetings
and activities. Help them feel welcome and included. Many
people have joined the Church through the example and
fellowship of their friends. Also make a special effort to reach
out to new converts and to those who are less active.
1 Timothy 4:12; Alma 17:1–2

What kind of friend am I?


Gratitude
He who receiveth all things with
thankfulness shall be made glorious.
Doctrine and Covenants 78:19

The Lord wants you to have a spirit of
gratitude in all you do and say. Live with
a spirit of thanksgiving and you will
have greater happiness and satisfaction
in life. Gratitude will turn your heart
to the Lord and help you recognize His
influence and blessings in your life.
Even in your most difficult times, you
can find much to be grateful for. Doing
so will strengthen and bless you.
In your prayers, pour out your heart to your Father in
Heaven in thanks for the blessings you have received. Be
specific in thanking Him for His goodness, for your family,
for friends, for leaders and teachers, for the gospel, and for
His Son, Jesus Christ.
You also express gratitude to the Lord by the way you live.
When you keep His commandments and serve others, you
show that you love Him and are grateful to Him. Express your
gratitude to others for the many ways they bless your life.
Luke 17:12–19; Alma 34:38

How can I express sincere gratitude for my blessings?


Honesty and Integrity
Thou shalt not steal. Thou shalt not
bear false witness. Exodus 20:15–16
Be honest with yourself, others, and God at all times. Being
honest means choosing not to lie, steal, cheat, or deceive in
any way. When you are honest, you build strength of character that will allow you to be of great service to God and
others. You will be blessed with peace of mind and selfrespect. You will be trusted by the Lord and will be worthy
to enter into His holy temples.
Dishonesty harms you and harms others as well. If you lie,
steal, shoplift, or cheat, you damage your spirit and your
relationships with others. Being honest will enhance your
future opportunities and your ability to be guided by the
Holy Ghost. Be honest at school; choose not to cheat in any
way. Be honest in your job, giving a full amount of work for
your pay. Do not rationalize that being dishonest is acceptable, even though others may think it does not matter.
Closely associated with honesty is integrity. Integrity means
thinking and doing what is right at all times, no matter what
the consequences. When you have integrity, you are willing
to live by your standards and beliefs even when no one is
watching. Choose to live so that your thoughts and behavior
are always in harmony with the gospel.
Alma 27:27; 53:20

Am I honest in all my conversations and dealings?



Language
Let no corrupt communication
proceed out of your mouth, but
that which is good. Ephesians 4:29
How you communicate should reflect
who you are as a son or daughter of
God. Clean and intelligent language is
evidence of a bright and wholesome
mind. Good language that uplifts,
encourages, and compliments others
invites the Spirit to be with you. Our
words, like our deeds, should be filled
with faith, hope, and charity.
Choose friends who use good language.
Help others improve their language by your example. Be
willing to politely walk away or change the subject when
those around you use inappropriate language.
Speak kindly and positively about others. Choose not to
insult others or put them down, even in joking. Avoid gossip
of any kind, and avoid speaking in anger. When you are
tempted to say harsh or hurtful things, leave them unsaid.



Always use the names of God and Jesus Christ with
reverence and respect. Misusing the names of Deity is a sin.
When you pray, address your Father in Heaven in reverent
and respectful language. The Savior used such respectful
language in the Lord’s Prayer (see Matthew 6:9–12).

Do not use profane, vulgar, or crude language or gestures,
and do not tell jokes or stories about immoral actions.
These are offensive to God and to others.
Remember that these standards for your use of language
apply to all forms of communication, including texting on a
cell phone or communicating on the Internet.
If you have developed the habit of using language that is
not in keeping with these standards—such as swearing,
mocking, gossiping, or speaking in anger to others—you
can change. Pray for help. Ask your family and friends to
support you in your desire to use good language.
Exodus 20:7; James 3:2–13; Mosiah 4:30

What do the words I use say about me?


Music and Dancing
Praise the Lord with singing,
with music, with dancing.
Doctrine and Covenants 136:28

Music can enrich your life. It can edify
and inspire you and help you draw
closer to Heavenly Father. Music has a
profound effect on your mind, spirit,
and behavior.
Choose carefully the music you listen to.
Pay attention to how you feel when you
are listening. Some music can carry evil
and destructive messages. Do not listen
to music that encourages immorality or
glorifies violence through its lyrics, beat, or intensity. Do
not listen to music that uses vulgar or offensive language or
promotes evil practices. Such music can dull your spiritual
sensitivity.
Learn and sing the hymns. Hymns can lift your spirit, move
you to righteous action, and help you withstand the temptations of the adversary.
When listening to music, be courteous to those around you.
Keep your music at a reasonable volume, and remove your
earphones when others are talking to you or want you to be
part of their activities. Remember that the Spirit speaks with


a still, small voice. If you listen to music constantly, you may
not have the quiet time you need for thinking, feeling, and
receiving spiritual guidance.
Dancing can be fun and can provide an opportunity to meet
new people. However, it too can be misused. When dancing, avoid full body contact with your partner. Do not use
positions or moves that are suggestive of sexual or violent
behavior or are otherwise inappropriate.
Attend only those dances where dress, grooming, lighting,
lyrics, music, and entertainment contribute to a wholesome
atmosphere where the Spirit may be present.
Doctrine and Covenants 25:12

Does the music I listen to invite the Spirit?

Physical and
Emotional Health
All saints who remember to keep and
do these sayings . . . shall receive
health in their navel and marrow to
their bones; and shall find wisdom and
great treasures of knowledge.
Doctrine and Covenants 89:18–19

© Getty Images

Your body is a temple, a gift from God. You will be blessed
as you care for your body. Choose to obey the Word of
Wisdom (see D&C 89). When you are obedient to this law,
you remain free from harmful addictions and have control
over your life. You gain the blessings of a healthy body, an
alert mind, and the guidance of the Holy Ghost. You will
be prepared to serve the Lord. Never let Satan or others
deceive you into thinking that breaking the Word of Wisdom
will make you happier, more popular, or more attractive.
To care for your body, eat nutritious food, exercise regularly,
and get enough sleep. Practice balance and moderation in
all aspects of your physical health. Also, avoid extremes in
diet that could lead to eating disorders. Do not intentionally
harm your body. Avoid dangerous activities that put your
body at risk of serious injury.

Physical and Emotional Health

Do not drink coffee or tea. Never use tobacco products or
any form of alcohol; they are addictive and harmful to your
body and spirit. Being under the influence of alcohol weakens your judgment and self-control. Drinking can also lead
to alcoholism, which destroys individuals and families.
Avoid any drink, drug, chemical, or dangerous practice that is
used to produce a “high” or other artificial effect that may harm
your body or mind. Some of these include marijuana, hard
drugs, prescription or over-the-counter medications that are
abused, and household chemicals. Use of these substances can
lead to addiction and can destroy your mind and your body.


Physical and Emotional Health

Addictions harm your physical, mental, emotional, and spiri­tual
well-being. They damage relationships with family and friends
and diminish your feelings of self-worth. They limit your
ability to make choices for yourself. If you are struggling with
any type of addiction, seek help from your parents and your
bishop now.
Your emotional health is also important and may affect your
spiritual and physical well-being. Disappointment and occasional sadness are part of this mortal life. However, if you have
prolonged feelings of sadness, hopelessness, anxiety, or depression, talk with your parents and your bishop and seek help.
In all aspects of your life, seek healthy solutions to problems.
Do all you can to safeguard your physical and emotional
health so that you can fulfill your divine potential as a son
or daughter of God.
Daniel 1:3–20; Alma 53:20

What am I doing each day to care for my body?


Repentance
By this ye may know if a man repenteth
of his sins—behold, he will confess
them and forsake them.
Doctrine and Covenants 58:43

The Savior suffered for our sins and
gave His life for us. This great sacrifice
is called the Atonement. Through the
Atonement, you can receive forgiveness
and be cleansed from your sins when
you repent.
Repentance is more than simply acknowledging wrong­doings. It is a change of
mind and heart. It includes turning away
from sin and turning to God for forgiveness. It is motivated by love for God and the sincere desire to
obey His commandments.
Satan wants you to think that you cannot repent, but that is
absolutely not true. The Savior has promised you forgiveness if
you will humble yourself and make the effort that repentance
requires. If you have sinned, the sooner you repent, the sooner
you begin to make your way back and find the peace and joy
that come with forgiveness. If you delay re­pentance, you may
lose blessings, opportunities, and spiritual guidance. You may
also become further entangled in sinful behavior, making it
more difficult to find your way back.

Some people knowingly break God’s commandments, planning
to repent later, such as before they go to the temple or serve a
mission. Such deliberate sin mocks the Savior’s Atonement.
To repent, you need to confess your sins to the Lord. Then
seek forgiveness from those you have wronged, and restore
as far as possible what has been damaged by your actions.
As you strive to repent, seek help and counsel from your
parents. Serious sins, such as sexual transgression or use of
pornography, need to be confessed to your bishop. Be
completely honest with him. He will help you repent. If you
have a question about what should be discussed with the
bishop, talk with your parents or with him.
When you do what is necessary to repent and receive
forgiveness, you will know for yourself the power of the
Atonement and the love God has for you. You will feel the
peace of the Lord Jesus Christ, which will bring you great
strength, and you will become more like Him.
Alma 36:6–24; Doctrine and Covenants 58:42; 88:86

How can I bring the power of the Atonement into my life?

Sabbath Day
Observance
Remember the sabbath day,
to keep it holy. Exodus 20:8
The Lord has given the Sabbath day for
your benefit and has commanded you to
keep it holy.
Honoring the Sabbath day includes
attending all your Church meetings.
Go to sacrament meeting prepared to
worship the Lord and partake worthily
of the sacrament. During sacrament
meeting, be reverent and willing to
learn. Refrain from activities that would
distract you or others during this sacred meeting. Be on time
for your meetings. As you do these things, you invite the
Spirit of the Lord to be with you.
Prepare during the week so that you can reserve Sunday
for the many uplifting activities that are appropriate for the
Sabbath day. Such activities include spending quiet time
with your family, studying the gospel, fulfilling your Church
callings and responsibilities, serving others, writing letters,
writing in your journal, and doing family history work. Your
behavior and dress on the Sabbath should show respect for
the Lord and His holy day.
Sunday is not a day for shopping, recreation, or athletic
events. Do not seek entertainment or make purchases on this
day. Let others know what your standards are so they can
support you. When seeking a job, share with your potential
employer your desire to attend your Sunday meetings and
keep the Sabbath day holy. Whenever possible, choose a job
that does not require you to work on Sundays.
Observing the Sabbath will bring you closer to the Lord and
to your family. It will give you an eternal perspective and
spiritual strength.
Isaiah 58:13–14; Doctrine and Covenants 59:9–13

What more can I do to keep the Sabbath day holy?

Service
When ye are in the service of
your fellow beings ye are only in
the service of your God. Mosiah 2:17
Service to others is an important
characteristic of a disciple of Jesus
Christ. A disciple is willing to bear other
people’s burdens and to comfort those
who need comfort. Often Heavenly
Father will meet the needs of others
through you.
There are many ways to serve others.
Some of the most important service you
can give will be within your own home.
You can also serve in your Church assignments, school,
and community. You can serve by doing temple and family
history work. You can serve by sharing the gospel with
others now and as a full-time missionary in the future. Often
the most meaningful service is expressed through simple,
everyday acts of kindness. Seek the guidance of the Holy
Ghost each day to know whom to serve and how to help
meet their needs. Follow the example of the Savior as you
serve others.


As you devote yourself to serving others, you will draw
closer to Heavenly Father. Your heart will be filled with
love. You will learn that service and sacrifice are ways to
overcome selfishness. You will enjoy happiness that comes
only from giving service to God and others. Your capacities
will increase, and you will be an instrument in God’s hands
to bless the lives of His children.
Luke 10:25–37; Mosiah 18:8–9

What opportunities do I have to serve others?

Sexual Purity
The sacred powers of procreation
are to be employed only between
man and woman, lawfully wedded
as husband and wife.
“The Family: A Proclamation to the World”

Physical intimacy between husband and wife is beautiful and sacred. It is ordained of God for the creation of
children and for the expression of love between husband
and wife. God has commanded that sexual intimacy be
reserved for marriage.
When you are sexually pure, you prepare yourself to make
and keep sacred covenants in the temple. You prepare
yourself to build a strong marriage and to bring children into
the world as part of an eternal and loving family. You protect
yourself from the spiritual and emotional damage that come
from sharing sexual intimacy outside of marriage. You also
protect yourself from harmful diseases. Remaining sexually
pure helps you to be confident and truly happy and improves
your ability to make good decisions now and in the future.
The Lord’s standard regarding sexual purity is clear and unchanging. Do not have any sexual relations before marriage,
and be completely faithful to your spouse after marriage. Do
not allow the media, your peers, or others to persuade you
that sexual intimacy before marriage is acceptable. It is not.


Sexual Purity

In God’s sight, sexual sins are extremely serious. They defile
the sacred power God has given us to create life. The prophet
Alma taught that sexual sins are more serious than any other
sins except murder or denying the Holy Ghost (see Alma 39:5).
Never do anything that could lead to sexual transgression.
Treat others with respect, not as objects used to satisfy lustful
and selfish desires. Before marriage, do not participate in
passionate kissing, lie on top of another person, or touch
the private, sacred parts of another person’s body, with or
without clothing. Do not do anything else that arouses sexual
feelings. Do not arouse those emotions in your own body.
Pay attention to the promptings of the Spirit so that you can
be clean and virtuous. The Spirit of the Lord will withdraw
from one who is in sexual transgression.
Avoid situations that invite increased temptation, such as
late-night or overnight activities away from home or activities
where there is a lack of adult supervision. Do not participate
in discussions or any media that arouse sexual feelings. Do
not participate in any type of pornography. The Spirit can help
you know when you are at risk and give you the strength to
remove yourself from the situation. Have faith in and be
obedient to the righteous counsel of your parents and leaders.
Homosexual and lesbian behavior is a serious sin. If you find
yourself struggling with same-gender attraction or you are
being persuaded to participate in inappropriate behavior, seek
counsel from your parents and bishop. They will help you.
Victims of sexual abuse are not guilty of sin and do not need
to repent. If you have been a victim of abuse, know that you
are innocent and that God loves you. Talk to your parents
or another trusted adult, and seek your bishop’s counsel
immediately. They can support you spiritually and assist you


in getting the protection and help you need. The process of
healing may take time. Trust in the Savior. He will heal you
and give you peace.
If you are tempted to commit any form of sexual transgression, seek help from your parents and bishop. Pray to your
Father in Heaven, who will help you resist temptation and
overcome inappropriate thoughts and feelings. If you have
committed sexual transgression, talk to your bishop now
and begin the process of repentance so that you can find
peace and have the full companionship of the Spirit.
Make a personal commitment to be sexually pure. By your
words and actions, encourage others to do the same.
Genesis 39:1–12; Doctrine and Covenants 38:42

Do I understand why sexual purity is essential to being
truly happy?


Tithes and Offerings
Bring ye all the tithes into the storehouse, . . . and prove me now herewith,
saith the Lord of hosts, if I will not
open you the windows of heaven,
and pour you out a blessing. Malachi 3:10
Choosing to live the law of tithing will be a great blessing
throughout your life. A tithe is one-tenth of your income.
In order to enter the temple, you must be a full-tithe payer.
Paying tithing is a sacred privilege. When you pay tithing,
you show gratitude for all that God has given you and return
to Him a portion of what you have received. Tithing is used
to build temples and meetinghouses, translate and publish
the scriptures, do missionary and family history work, and in
other ways build God’s kingdom on earth.
Your attitude is important in paying tithing. Pay it because
you love the Lord and have faith in Him. Pay it willingly with
a thankful heart. Pay it first, even when you think you do not
have enough money to meet your other needs. Doing so will
help you develop greater faith, overcome selfishness, and be
more receptive to the Spirit.
Each year, schedule a time for tithing settlement with your
bishop. This is a meeting in which you review your contributions and declare whether you have paid a full tithe.


Obey the law of the fast by fasting each month, if health permits. Fast Sunday is usually on the first Sunday of the month.
A proper fast day observance includes not eating or drinking
for two consecutive meals and giving a generous fast offering
to help care for those in need. Fast with a purpose. Begin and
end your fast with prayer, expressing gratitude and asking for
help with special needs you or others may have. Fasting will
strengthen your self-discipline, fortify you against temptations, and bring the Lord’s blessings into your life.

© Getty Images

As you obey the law of tithing and the law of the fast, the
Lord will bless you both spiritually and temporally.
Jacob 2:17–19; Doctrine and Covenants 119:3–4

Do I recognize that all I have comes from the Lord?


Work and Self-Reliance
Thou shalt not idle away thy time,
neither shalt thou bury thy talent.
Doctrine and Covenants 60:13

Work is honorable. Developing the capacity to work will help
you contribute to the world in which you live. It will bring
you an increased sense of self-worth. It will bless you and
your family, both now and in the future.
Learning to work begins in the home. Help your family by
willingly participating in the work necessary to maintain a
home. Learn early to handle your money wisely and live
within your means. Follow the teachings of the prophets by
paying your tithing, avoiding debt, and saving for the future.
Set high goals for yourself, and be willing to work hard to
achieve them. Develop self-discipline, and be dependable.
Do your best in your Church callings, schoolwork, employment, and other worthwhile pursuits. Young men should be
willing to do what is needed to be prepared to serve a fulltime mission. Heavenly Father has given you gifts and talents
and knows what you are capable of achieving. Seek His help
and guidance as you work to achieve your goals.


The Lord has commanded us not to be idle. Idleness can lead
to inappropriate behavior, damaged relationships, and sin.
One form of idleness is spending excessive amounts of time in
activities that keep you from productive work, such as using
the Internet, playing video games, and watching television.

Do not waste your time and money in gambling. Gambling
is wrong and should not be used as a form of entertainment.
It is addictive and can lead to lost opportunities, ruined lives,
and broken families. It is false to believe that you can get
something for nothing.
One of the blessings of work is developing self-reliance.
When you are self-reliant, you use the blessings and abilities
God has given you to care for yourself and your family and
to find solutions for your own problems. Self-reliance does
not mean that you must be able to do all things on your
own. To be truly self-reliant, you must learn how to work
with others and turn to the Lord for His help and strength.
Remember that God has a great work for you to do. He will
bless you in your efforts to accomplish that work.
2 Nephi 5:17; Doctrine and Covenants 58:26–27

Am I dependable and willing to do what I say I will do?

Go Forward
with Faith
By small and simple things are great
things brought to pass. Alma 37:6
The standards presented in this booklet
are a guide to help you make correct
choices. Review the standards often and
ask yourself, “Am I living the way the
Lord wants me to live?” and “How have I
been blessed by living these standards?”
To help you become all that the Lord
wants you to become, kneel each morning and night in prayer to your Father in
Heaven. Express to Him your gratitude
and the desires of your heart. He is the source of all wisdom.
He will hear and answer your prayers.
Study the scriptures each day and apply what you read to
your life. The scriptures are a powerful source of personal
revelation and guidance and a constant strength to your
testimony.
Strive each day to be obedient. Follow the standards in
this booklet, and encourage others to live them as well.
Remember the covenants that you have made and that you
have the opportunity to renew each week when you partake


of the sacrament. Strive to keep these covenants. If you make
a mistake, don’t give up on yourself. Your Heavenly Father
loves you and wants you to seek His help and keep trying.
When possible, attend the temple and feel the joy and
peace that come from serving in the house of the Lord.
Prepare yourself for the temple covenants you will make
in the future.
Young men of the Aaronic Priesthood, commit to serve
a full-time mission. This is a priesthood duty. Keep yourself
clean and worthy, and work diligently to prepare yourself to
represent the Lord as a missionary.
In all circumstances, follow the teachings of the prophets,
the other authorities of the Church, and your local leaders.
They will lead you in paths of happiness.
Be humble and willing to listen to the Holy Ghost and
respond to His promptings. Place the wisdom of the Lord
above your own wisdom.
As you do these things, the Lord will make much more out
of your life than you can by yourself. He will increase your
opportunities, expand your vision, and strengthen you.
He will give you the help you need to meet your trials and
challenges. You will gain a stronger testimony and find true
joy as you come to know your Father in Heaven and His
Son, Jesus Christ, and feel Their love for you.
2 Nephi 31:16–21



Church Educational System Honor Code 
 9 November 2015 
Brigham Young University, Brigham Young University‐Hawaii, Brigham Young University‐Idaho, 
and LDS Business College exist to provide an education in an atmosphere consistent with the 
ideals and principles of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter‐day Saints. That atmosphere is 
created and preserved through commitment to conduct that reflects those ideals and 
principles. Members of the faculty, administration, staff, and student body at BYU, BYU‐H, BYU‐
I, and LDSBC are selected and retained from among individuals who voluntarily live the 
principles of the gospel of Jesus Christ. Observance of such is a specific condition of 
employment and admission. Those individuals who are not members of The Church of Jesus 
Christ of Latter‐day Saints are also expected to maintain the same standards of conduct, except 
church attendance. All who represent BYU, BYU‐H, BYU‐I, and LDSBC are to maintain the 
highest standards of honor, integrity, morality, and consideration of others in personal 
behavior. By accepting appointment on the faculty, continuing in employment, or continuing 
class enrollment, individuals evidence their commitment to observe the Honor Code standards 
approved by the Board of Trustees “at all times and . . . in all places” (Mosiah 18:9). 

Honor Code Statement  
We believe in being honest, true, chaste, benevolent, virtuous, and in doing good to all men. . . . 
If there is anything virtuous, lovely, or of good report or praiseworthy, we seek after these 
things. (Thirteenth Article of Faith.) 
As a matter of personal commitment, the faculty, administration, staff, and students of Brigham 
Young University, Brigham Young University‐Hawaii, BYU‐I, and LDS Business College seek to 
demonstrate in daily living on and off‐campus those moral virtues encompassed in the gospel 
of Jesus Christ, and will: 


Be honest 
Live a chaste and virtuous life 
Obey the law and all campus policies 
Use clean language 
Respect others 
Abstain from alcoholic beverages, tobacco, tea, coffee, and substance abuse 
Participate regularly in church services 
Observe Dress and Grooming Standards 
Encourage others in their commitment to comply with the Honor Code 

Specific policies embodied in the Honor Code include (1) the Academic Honesty Policy, (2) the 
Dress and Grooming Standards, (3) the Residential Living Standards, and (4) the Continuing 


Student Ecclesiastical Endorsement Requirement. (Refer to institutional policies for more 
detailed information.) 

Good Honor Code Standing 
Students must be in good Honor Code standing to be admitted to, continue enrollment at, and 
graduate from BYU. The term “good Honor Code standing” means that a student's conduct is 
consistent with the Honor Code and the ideals and principles of The Church of Jesus Christ of 
Latter‐day Saints. Excommunication, disfellowshipment, or disaffiliation from The Church of 
Jesus Christ of Latter‐day Saints automatically results in the loss of good Honor Code standing. 
Further, a student is not in good Honor Code standing if his or her ecclesiastical endorsement 
has either lapsed or has been withdrawn, or if the Honor Code Office has placed a “hold” on the 
student's records. 
All students, upon admission to BYU, are required to observe the standards of the Honor Code 
at all times, whether on or off campus. When the Honor Code Office receives reports of 
misconduct prior to a prospective student's admission or readmission, those reports are 
referred to the Admissions Office for appropriate action. When the Honor Code Office receives 
reports of student misconduct after admission or readmission, but before registration for 
classes, the Honor Code Office typically notifies the student, indicating that a “hold” will be 
placed on the student's registration if the matter is not resolved to the satisfaction of the Honor 
Code Office by a specified date. The Honor Code Office also reserves the right to place a “hold” 
on the record of any student based on reports of student misconduct prior to notifying the 
student. 

Conduct 
All students are required to conduct themselves in a manner consistent with the Honor Code. In 
addition, students may not influence or seek to influence others to engage in behavior 
inconsistent with the Honor Code. 
Students must abstain from the use of alcohol, tobacco, and illegal substances and from the 
intentional misuse or abuse of any substance. Sexual misconduct; obscene or indecent conduct 
or expressions; disorderly or disruptive conduct; participation in gambling activities; 
involvement with pornographic, erotic, indecent, or offensive material; and any other conduct 
or action inconsistent with the principles of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter‐day Saints and 
the Honor Code is not permitted.  
Violations of the Honor Code may result in actions up to and including separation from the 
university. 

 
 
	

Homosexual Behavior 
Brigham Young University will respond to homosexual behavior rather than to feelings or 
attraction and welcomes as full members of the university community all whose behavior 
meets university standards. Members of the university community can remain in good Honor 
Code standing if they conduct their lives in a manner consistent with gospel principles and the 
Honor Code. 
One's stated same‐gender attraction is not an Honor Code issue. However, the Honor Code 
requires all members of the university community to manifest a strict commitment to the law 
of chastity. Homosexual behavior is inappropriate and violates the Honor Code. Homosexual 
behavior includes not only sexual relations between members of the same sex, but all forms of 
physical intimacy that give expression to homosexual feelings. 

Dress and Grooming Standards 
The dress and grooming of both men and women should always be modest, neat, and clean, 
consistent with the dignity adherent to representing The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter‐day 
Saints and any of its institutions of higher education. 
Modesty and cleanliness are important values that reflect personal dignity and integrity, 
through which students, staff, and faculty represent the principles and standards of the Church. 
Members of the BYU community commit themselves to observe the following standards, which 
reflect the direction of the Board of Trustees and the Church publication For the Strength of 
Youth. The Dress and Grooming Standards are as follows: 
Men 
A clean and well‐cared‐for appearance should be maintained. Clothing is inappropriate when it 
is sleeveless, revealing, or form fitting. Shorts must be knee‐length or longer. Hairstyles should 
be clean and neat, avoiding extreme styles or colors, and trimmed above the collar, leaving the 
ear uncovered. Sideburns should not extend below the earlobe or onto the cheek. If worn, 
moustaches should be neatly trimmed and may not extend beyond or below the corners of the 
mouth. Men are expected to be clean‐shaven; beards are not acceptable. Earrings and other 
body piercing are not acceptable. Shoes should be worn in all public campus areas. 
Women 
A clean and well‐cared‐for appearance should be maintained. Clothing is inappropriate when it 
is sleeveless, strapless, backless, or revealing; has slits above the knee; or is form fitting. 
Dresses, skirts, and shorts must be knee‐length or longer. Hairstyles should be clean and neat, 
avoiding extremes in styles or colors. Excessive ear piercing (more than one per ear) and all 
other body piercing are not acceptable. Shoes should be worn in all public campus areas. 
 


Residential Living Standards 
As stated in the Honor Code, Brigham Young University is committed to providing a learning 
atmosphere consistent with the principles of the Church. The university is likewise committed 
to creating such an atmosphere for students residing on and off campus and between 
semesters. To achieve this, BYU has established living standards to help students learn some of 
the high ideals and principles of behavior expected at Brigham Young University. Therefore, the 
university requires students to adhere to the following applicable standards: 

Housing 
All single BYU undergraduate students who are not residing with their parents must live in 
university on‐campus or university‐contracted, sex‐segregated housing unless specifically 
excused in writing by the Off‐Campus Housing Office.  

Visiting Hours 
Helaman Halls 
Visitors of the opposite sex are permitted in the lobbies but not in the bedroom area, except 
during an established open house, at which times room doors must remain open. Lobby visiting 
hours begin after 8:00 a.m. and extend until 12:00 midnight, Saturday through Thursday. On 
Friday night, lobby visiting hours extend until 1:30 a.m. 
Heritage Halls 
Visitors of the opposite sex are permitted in the lobbies and apartment kitchens but not in 
bedrooms or bathrooms. Lobby visiting hours are from 8:00 a.m. to 12:00 midnight daily, 
Saturday through Thursday, and extend until 1:30 a.m. on Fridays. Apartment visiting hours are 
from 10:00 a.m. to 11:00 p.m. Sunday through Thursday and extend until 12:00 midnight on 
Friday and Saturday. 
Off‐Campus Visiting Hours, Wyview Park, and Foreign Language Student Residence 
Visitors of the opposite sex are permitted in living rooms and kitchens but not in the bedrooms 
in off‐campus living units, Wyview Park, and the Foreign Language Student Residence. The use 
of the bathroom areas by members of the opposite sex is not appropriate unless emergency or 
civility dictates otherwise, and then only if the safety, privacy, and sensitivity of other residents 
are not jeopardized. Visiting hours may begin after 9:00 a.m. and extend until 12:00 midnight. 
Friday night visiting hours may extend until 1:30 a.m. Landlords may establish a shorter visiting 
period if proper notice is given to students. 

 


Guests 
All guests of students must comply with the Residential Living Standards while on the premises 
of university‐contracted housing. Students are expected to help their guests and other 
residents understand and fulfill their responsibility under the Residential Living Standards and 
the Honor Code. Approval forms must be submitted for all guest requests, and are available 
from hall advisors and area offices. Approved guests may stay a maximum of three nights. 
Maintaining the Standards 
Violations of these standards may be reported to the Honor Code Office, 4440 WSC, (801) 422‐
2847, or the Off‐Campus Housing Office, (801) 422‐1513. 

Continuing Student Ecclesiastical Endorsement 
Students are required to be in good Honor Code standing to be admitted to, continue 
enrollment at, and graduate from BYU. In conjunction with this requirement, all enrolled 
continuing undergraduate, graduate, intern, and Study Abroad students are required to obtain 
a Continuing Student Ecclesiastical Endorsement for each new academic year. Students must 
have their endorsements completed, turned in, and processed by the Honor Code Office before 
they can register for fall semester or any semester thereafter. To avoid registration delays, 
endorsement should be submitted to the Honor Code Office by March 15. Those applying to 
BYU should use the new‐student Admissions Application Part 3 endorsement and submit to 
Admissions, D‐155 ASB. 
LDS students may be endorsed only by the bishop of the ward (1) in which they live and (2) that 
holds their current Church membership record. 
Non‐LDS students are to be endorsed by (1) the local ecclesiastical leader if the student is an 
active member of the congregation, (2) the bishop of the LDS ward in which they currently 
reside, or (3) the nondenominational BYU chaplain. 
Former LDS students are not eligible to receive an ecclesiastical endorsement (See Withdrawn 
or Denied Ecclesiastical Endorsement below). 
Requirements 
Whether on or off campus or between semesters, all students are expected to abide by the 
Honor Code, which includes (1) the Academic Honesty Policy, (2) the Dress and Grooming 
Standards, and (3) the applicable Residential Living Standards. Students are required to be in 
good Honor Code standing to graduate. 
LDS students must fulfill their duty in The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter‐day Saints, attend 
Church meetings, and abide by the rules and standards of the Church on and off campus. 
 


Students who are not members of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter‐day Saints are also 
expected to maintain the same standards of conduct. They are encouraged to participate in 
services of their preferred religion. All students must be in good Honor Code standing to 
graduate, to receive a diploma, and to have the degree posted. 

Withdrawn or Denied Ecclesiastical Endorsement 
An ecclesiastical leader may withdraw a student's endorsement at any time or may decline to 
endorse a continuing student if the leader determines that the student is no longer eligible for 
the endorsement. If an endorsement is withdrawn or if a Continuing Student Ecclesiastical 
Endorsement is denied, no confessional information is exchanged without authorization from 
the student. The withdrawal of a student’s ecclesiastical endorsement automatically results in 
the loss of good Honor Code standing. Students who are not in good Honor Code standing must 
discontinue enrollment. Also, they are not eligible for graduation, even if they have otherwise 
completed all necessary coursework. Excommunication, disfellowshipment, or disaffiliation 
from The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter‐day Saints automatically results in the withdrawal of 
the student's ecclesiastical endorsement and the loss of good Honor Code standing. 
Disaffiliation is defined for purposes of this policy as removal of an individual's name from the 
official records of the Church. 
The decision to withdraw an ecclesiastical endorsement or to deny a Continuing Student 
Ecclesiastical Endorsement may be appealed through appropriate ecclesiastical leaders only. As 
a matter of practice, BYU does not intervene in ecclesiastical matters or endorsements. 
However, a student may petition the Dean of Students Office to allow an exception to the 
ecclesiastical endorsement requirement. As part of the petition, the student must (i) complete 
an Application for Exception to Policy (this form may be obtained from the Dean of Students 
Office); (ii) prepare a written statement outlining the reasons why the university should allow 
an exception; and (iii) within five business days of receiving notice that the ecclesiastical 
endorsement has been withdrawn or that a Continuing Student Ecclesiastical Endorsement has 
been denied, submit the completed application and relevant statements to the Dean of 
Students Office for consideration. 
When considering the petition, the dean of students will determine whether the student has 
observed and continues to observe the standards of the Honor Code or has demonstrated 
other sufficiently compelling grounds to warrant an exception to the university's ecclesiastical 
endorsement requirement. The dean of students will not review the ecclesiastical leader’s 
decision to withdraw or deny endorsement or the process for reaching that decision. The dean 
of students and other university officials will not discuss confidential matters with the student's 
present or former ecclesiastical leaders unless the student voluntarily signs a release allowing 
that communication. The dean of students may also choose to personally interview the student, 
who may further explain the circumstances which might justify an exception to the 
ecclesiastical endorsement requirement. The student bears the burden of persuasion that he or 

Spiritual Environment
Brigham Young University–Idaho 2012-2013

PRINCIPLES OF PERSONAL HONOR

Furthermore, a student is not in good honor code standing if his or
her ecclesiastical endorsement has either lapsed or been withdrawn,
or if the Student Honor Office has placed a hold on the student’s
records.
All students are required to remain in good honor code standing at
all times once admitted to BYU, whether they are on or off
campus, on or off track. The Student Honor and Admission offices
may place a hold on a student’s admission, registration or student
record when they receive reports of misconduct. While these offices
typically notify the student before placing holds, they reserve the
right to place a hold after attempts to notify the student have failed.
Written authorization by the student is required in order to disclose
whether the student is in good honor code standing to any person or
organization outside of those regularly allowed such information
Individuals who are registered sex offenders pursuant to law are not
eligible for enrollment at BYU. Registered sex offenders will
not be allowed employment at BYU nor other access to the
campus.

“True at all Times”
 Personal honor is integrity in fulfilling commitments, responsibilities, and covenants.
 Personal honor begins with willing obedience and is fully developed when we consistently govern ourselves by true principles.
 Personal honor increases spiritual strength through the ministry of
the Holy Ghost.
 Personal honor is central to every aspect of our lives, including the
BYU experience.
 Personal honor brings us joy and happiness; deepens our desire
to love, serve, and lift others; and ultimately helps us to become
more like the Savior.

CHURCH EDUCATION SYSTEM HONOR CODE
Brigham Young University-Idaho and other Church Education System (CES) institutions (Brigham Young University, Brigham Young
University-Hawaii, and LDS Business College) exist to educate
students in an atmosphere consistent with the ideals and principles of
The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. These institutions
select employees and students who voluntarily live the principles of
the gospel of Jesus Christ. Living by those standards is a condition of
employment and admission. Individuals who are not members of the
Church are also expected to maintain the same standards of honor,
integrity, morality, and consideration of others. By enrolling at BYU, or accepting appointment as an employee, individuals show
their commitment to observe the Honor Code standards approved
by the Board of Trustees “at all times ... and in all places” (Mosiah
18:9).
“We believe in being honest, true, chaste, benevolent, virtuous, and
in doing good to all men.... If there is anything virtuous, lovely, or of
good report or praiseworthy, we seek after these things” (13th Article
of Faith).
As a matter of personal commitment, faculty, staff, and students of
BYU, BYU-Hawaii, BYU, and LDS Business College seek to
demonstrate in daily living on- and off- campus those moral virtues
encompassed in the gospel of Jesus Christ, and will:

UNIVERSITY STANDARDS AND POLICIES
The University Standards are designed to support and strengthen the
Honor Code. Included are specific standards and policies on each
of the following: (1) academic honesty, (2) university standards, (3)
dress and grooming, (4) ecclesiastical endorsements for continuing
students, and (5) church attendance. BYU uses its discretion
to determine violations that fall within the expectations of conduct
defined in the Honor Code. The below standards are not inclusive of
all possible violations of the Honor Code.

1. ACADEMIC HONESTY
BYU students should seek to be completely honest in all their
dealings. They should complete their own work and be evaluated for
that work. They should avoid academic dishonesty and misconduct
in all its forms, including but not limited to plagiarism, fabrication,
falsification, and cheating.
Plagiarism
Intentional plagiarism is the deliberate act of representing the words,
ideas, or data of another as one’s own without providing proper
attribution to the original author through quotation, reference, or
footnote.
Inadvertent plagiarism involves the inappropriate, but non-deliberate,
use of another’s words, ideas, or data without proper attribution.
Although not a violation of the Honor Code, it is a form of academic
misconduct for which an instructor can impose appropriate academic
sanctions. Students who are in doubt as to whether they are providing proper attribution have the responsibility to consult with their
instructor and obtain guidance.
Plagiarism may occur with respect to unpublished as well as published
material. Examples include:
 Direct Plagiarism: the verbatim copying of an original source
without acknowledging the source
 Paraphrased Plagiarism: the paraphrasing of ideas from another
without attribution, causing a reader to mistake these ideas for the
writer’s own
 Plagiarism Mosaic: the borrowing of words, ideas, or data from an
original source and blending this original material with one’s own
writing, without acknowledging the source
 Insufficient Acknowledgment: the partial or incomplete attribution of words, ideas, or data from an original source

 Be honest
 Live a chaste and virtuous life
 Obey the law and all campus policies
 Use clean language
 Respect others
 Abstain from alcoholic beverages, tobacco, tea, coffee and
substance abuse
 Participate regularly in church services
 Observe Dress and Grooming Standards
 Encourage others in their commitment to comply with the Honor
Code

Good Honor Code Standing
To be in good honor code standing means a student’s conduct is
consistent with the Principles of Personal Honor, the CES Honor
Code, The Family: A Proclamation to the World, For the Strength
of Youth, the University Standards and Policies, and the principles
of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, both on and
off campus. Students must be in good honor code standing to be
admitted to, continue enrollment at, and graduate from BYU.
Students not in good honor code standing may be suspended from
the university. Excommunication, disfellowshipment, or disaffiliation
from the Church will automatically result in the loss of good honor
code standing.



Spiritual Environment
Brigham Young University–Idaho 2012-2013
Refer student to the Student Honor Office. The Student Honor Office will complete an independent investigation and take appropriate
action. If the incident involves violation of a public law, e.g., breaking
and entering into an office or stealing an examination, the act should
be reported to University Security.
Both suspected and proven violations of the Academic Honesty
Policy should be reported to the Student Honor Office, detailing
the name, incident, and action taken. If the occurrence is sufficiently
egregious, or if a pattern of dishonesty or misconduct is discovered,
the Student Honor Office may take additional action, based upon the
nature of the violation.
If a student disagrees with the determination or action and is unable
to resolve the matter to the mutual satisfaction of the student and the
instructor, he or she may have it reviewed through the university’s
grievance process (See Student Academic Grievance Policy).
If an affected student disagrees with the determination or action
and is unable to resolve the matter to the mutual satisfaction of the
student and the instructor, he or she may have it reviewed through
the university’s grievance process. (See Student Academic Grievance
Policy)

Fabrication or Falsification
Fabrication or falsification occurs when a student invents or distorts
the origin or content of information used as authority. Examples
include:
 Citing a source that does not exist
 Citing information from a source that is not included in the
source for which credit is given
 Citing a source for a secondary proposition that it does not support
 Citing a bibliography source when it was neither consulted nor
cited in the body of the paper
 Intentionally distorting the meaning or applicability of data
 Inventing data or statistical results to support conclusions
Cheating
A student cheats when he or she attempts to give the appearance of
a level of knowledge or skill that has not been obtained. Examples
include:
 Copying from another person’s work during an examination or
while completing an assignment
 Allowing someone to copy work that is not his or her own during
an examination or while completing an assignment
 Using unauthorized materials during an examination or while
completing an assignment
 Collaborating on an examination or assignment without authorization
 Taking an examination or completing an assignment for another,
or permitting another to take an examination or to complete an
assignment that is not his or her own

2. UNIVERSITY STANDARDS
Camping and Overnight Activities
Overnight co-ed activities that are not university sponsored such as
spending the night together at the St. Anthony Sand Dunes, camping, staying in motels or cabins, and similar activities are prohibited.
No overnight guests of the opposite sex are permitted at any time in
single-student housing. Violations of this policy may result in disciplinary action, including separation from the university.
Computer Crime
Any person who knowingly and without permission accesses or attempts to access any campus computer, computer system, computer
program, or network without prior authorization is committing
computer fraud. This offense may result in a misdemeanor or felony
charge. Students found guilty of computer fraud may lose their
campus computer access and e-mail privileges, and/or be subject to
disciplinary action, including expulsion from the university.

Other Academic Misconduct
Other academic misconduct includes other academically dishonest,
deceitful, or inappropriate acts which are intentionally committed.
Examples include:
 Inappropriately providing or receiving information or academic
work so as to gain unfair advantage over others
 Planning with another to commit any act of academic dishonesty
 Attempting to gain an unfair academic advantage for oneself or
another by bribery or by any act of offering, giving, receiving, or
soliciting anything of value to another for such purpose
 Changing or altering grades or other official educational records
 Obtaining or providing to another a test or answers to a test that
has not been administered
 Breaking and entering into a building or office for the purpose of
obtaining unauthorized materials
 Continuing work on an examination or assignment after the allocated time has elapsed
 Submitting the same work for more than one class without disclosure and approval
 Getting equal credit on group assignments when equal work was
not done

Copyright
The use of university-owned computers, databases, servers, or the
BYU website or intranet for the storage, distribution, sharing,
viewing, or transmission of copyrighted materials without permission
is prohibited. Committing the previously stated offense may result
in a student’s loss of campus computer access and e-mail privileges.
He or she may be subject to disciplinary action, including separation
from the university.
Curfew Hours
All BYU students are to be in their own apartments by
midnight every night of the week except Friday, when curfew is one
o’clock a.m. When attending university functions that end later than
established curfew hours, such as plays and concerts, students should
be in within 30 minutes after the event is over.
Disruptive Behavior
Students involved in behavioral misconduct, abuse of administrative
processes, violation of university policy or procedures, inappropriate classroom behavior, intimidation, threats, violence, or other
inappropriate actions whether on campus, in BYU approved
housing, in community housing, in public, or in any BYU
program or activity, may be required to leave the institution or its
properties when their misconduct significantly and adversely impacts
the university’s ability to perform its mission or disrupts the general
environment BYU is striving to achieve.

Procedures for Handling Academic Dishonesty
Instructors are responsible to establish and communicate to students
their expectations of behavior with respect to academic honesty and
conduct in the course. The instructor will be responsible to investigate any incident of academic dishonesty or misconduct, determine
the circumstances, and take appropriate action. Examples of appropriate action include but are not limited to the following:
 Reprimanding the student orally or in writing
 Requiring work affected by the academic dishonesty to be redone
 Administering a lower or failing grade on the affected assignment,
test, or course



Spiritual Environment
Brigham Young University–Idaho 2012-2013
In cases involving an individual with a disability, including mental
disabilities, this policy will operate to make a determination based
upon an individual’s behavior rather than upon the individual’s status
of having a disability.
When it is determined that an individual is involved in significant
disruptive behavior, the student will receive an appropriate sanction,
including but not limited to, counsel and education, warning, probation, suspension or expulsion from the university, and banning from
access to university properties. Referral for criminal prosecution will
be made when warranted.

Harassment, Hazing, Intimidation or Aggressive Behavior
All forms of harassment (verbal, physical, mental or sexual), hazing,
intimidation, exploitation, or aggressive behavior that threaten or
endanger the physical or emotional health and safety of others is in
violation of the Honor Code. Any such behavior, including poking,
hitting, slapping, punching, kicking, profanity, or abusive language
will not be tolerated. Participants in such behaviors are subject to
university disciplinary action including separation from the university, as well as referral to law enforcement. Students who encounter
these types of behavior should contact the Student Honor Office at
208-496-9300, Kimball Building Room 270 or the Dean of Students
Office at 208-496-9200, Kimball Building Room 290.

Drugs and Alcohol
The use or possession of illegal substances or alcohol and associated
paraphernalia is prohibited at all times. Individuals found in violation
will be disciplined in accordance with current policy. Disclosure of a
violation may be made to a student’s parent/guardian by the Student
Honor Office or the Dean of Students Office. This disclosure can be
made with or without the students’ consent if students are less than
21 years of age. There may be effects on students’ financial aid if they
are convicted of controlled substance use and/or abuse.

Overnight Guests
Because overnight guests often cause interruption and inconvenience
to others, all such guests should be cleared with the apartment
manager and agreed upon by the roommates. No overnight guests
of the opposite sex are permitted at any time. Each tenant shall be
responsible for any damage, beyond reasonable wear and tear, to the
property of the apartment complex caused by the tenant, members of
the tenant’s family, or guests of the tenant.

E-mail
Students agree to not share their password, not send spam mail or
any inappropriate material (including messages of a harassing or salacious nature), not to use their account for commercial purposes, and
to keep all e-mail within the Honor Code. Students also agree not to
enter the e-mail accounts of others nor send e-mail messages posing
as someone they are not. Students must not harvest and provide lists
of BYU e-mail accounts to anyone.

Pets
No pets of any kind are allowed in approved housing.
Pornography
Individuals who use the Internet to share, transmit, access, view, or
read pornography may lose their campus computer access and e-mail
privileges and/or be subject to disciplinary action, including separation from the university.

Entertainment and the Media
”For the Strength of Youth” teaches us to, choose wisely when using
media, because whatever you read, listen to, or look at has an effect
on you. Select media that uplifts you. Do not attend, view, or participate in anything that is vulgar, immoral, violent, or pornographic
in any way. Do not participate in anything that presents immorality or violence as acceptable. Take care that your use of media and
entertainment does not dull your sensitivity to the Spirit or interfere
with your personal relationships with others. Do not communicate
anything over the Internet or through texting that would be inappropriate to share in person. Obey the laws that govern sharing music,
movies, and other copyrighted items (pg. 11-13).
Firearms
BYU prohibits the possession or use of firearms and weapons
on property owned or controlled by the university, including residence halls (see Idaho Code 18-3302C), and at programs sponsored
by BYU, which occur off campus property (i.e. Discovery,
travel related to academic studies, student activities, etc.). For the
purpose of this policy, firearms or weapons include any device that
can expel a projectile, and/or other dangerous weapons, including knives, explosives, or other items that, in their intended use, are
capable of inflicting injury. Because these items pose a clear risk to
the persons and property on BYU’s campus, violation of this
policy will result in appropriate disciplinary sanctions.
No one (employees, students, or visitors) except municipal, county,
state, or federal law enforcement officers shall be permitted to possess
or carry firearms or other weapons, concealed or not concealed, with
or without a concealed weapon permit, while upon the properties
owned or controlled by the university without specific written permission from the Dean of Students.
Members of the campus ROTC units may possess and/or carry firearms or weapons as part of official ROTC functions when authorized
by the ROTC administrator. Off-campus approved housing complex
owners and managers may assume the responsibility of storing weapons, firearms, or ammunition on the premises only if these items are
kept under lock and key in a gun safe outside of student apartments.
Any questions regarding this provision may be directed to the Housing and Student Living Director.

Quiet Hours (Approved Housing)
Quiet Hours in approved housing are from 10 p.m. until 8:30 a.m.
Monday through Saturday and all day on Sunday. Quiet hours are
designed to help students have adequate time for proper study and
sleep.
Right of Access
BYU is a private institution. Therefore all grounds, walkways,
roads, parking areas, and buildings owned by the university are
private property. The university retains the right and legal authority
to limit or otherwise restrict access to the campus for any reason it
may deem appropriate. As an educational institution, BYU
affirms its right to guard or protect employees, students, and guests
from interferences that would disrupt any class, program, activity,
event, or permitted function. This includes stalking or other conduct
that is threatening or disruptive to students, employees, or guests on
campus properties. Individuals who refuse to follow this policy will
be banned from campus and be subject to arrest and prosecution for
criminal trespass in violation of Idaho Code 18-7008.
Sexual Harassment
Sexual harassment, including sexual violence is not tolerated at BYU. Sexual harassment refers to unwelcome conduct of a sexual
nature. Sexual harassment may include 1) unwelcome sexual advances, 2) requests for sexual favors, and 3) other verbal, non-verbal,
or physical conduct of a sexual nature. Sexual harassment may also
include denying or limiting, on the basis of sex, the student’s ability
to participate in or receive benefits, services, or opportunities in
university programs. BYU’s policy against sexual harassment,
including sexual violence extends not only to employment situations
but to academic situations as well. If a student feels he or she has
encountered sexual harassment, sexual violence, gender-based discrimination, or needs assistance or information related to allegations
of sexual harassment, he or she should contact the Student Honor
Office at 208-496-9300, Kimball Building Room 270 or the Dean of
Students Office at 208-496-9200, Kimball Building Room 290.


Spiritual Environment
Brigham Young University–Idaho 2012-2013
Women
Clothing is immodest when it is sleeveless, does not cover the stomach or is low-cut in the front or back. Dresses and skirts should be
knee-length or longer (even with leggings worn). No capris may be
worn on campus. Women may wear one pair of earrings.

Single-Student Approved Housing
All single students under the age of 30 must live in approved housing
unless they live at home with their parents. Only admitted students
are eligible to live in approved housing beginning in their first
assigned semester. Individuals enrolled in Continuing Education
who are not admitted to a track are not eligible to live in approved
housing. Students who wish to live with a relative must receive an exception from the Housing & Student Living Office to live outside of
approved housing. Exceptions are granted on a case-by-case basis and
do not constitute an approval of the dwelling, but rather temporary
approval of the living situation for the student. Exceptions are timebound and may be withdrawn at any time. Those whose spouse has
passed away or who are divorced must receive an exception from the
Housing & Student Living Office to live in approved housing. Failure to comply with approved housing guidelines will result in a hold
being placed on the student record. This hold may prevent a student
from registering for classes, release a student from current classes, or
prevent a student from acquiring transcripts.
Individuals in the following categories must seek housing in the
community market: (a) those who have not been admitted as BYU students; (b) students who have been suspended for an Honor
Code violation; (c) students on academic suspension; and (d) single
students with children. All students living off campus must provide
the university with their current local street address while enrolled
at BYU. Students giving a false address are in violation of the
Honor Code and subject to disciplinary action through the Student
Honor Office, which may include suspension. For more information
contact housing and student living http://www.byui.edu/housing.

Men
Sideburns should not extend below the earlobe or onto the cheek.
Men are expected to be clean shaven, moustaches, if worn, should be
neatly trimmed and may not extend beyond or below the corners of
the mouth. Beards are not appropriate.

Dress Standards for Men and Women at Campus Events
Activity and Recreational Attire
Dress standards for each event will be specified prior to the event. If
no standard is indicated, the minimum standard will be campus attire.
Modest casual attire may be worn at certain activities and events.
Shorts and other pants ending above the ankle are inappropriate for
campus. Shorts are only allowed at playing fields and must be modest
in length. Traveling across campus to activities in shorts is not appropriate.
Event Attire
The minimum standard for men will be shirt and tie. Jeans are not
appropriate. The minimum standard for women will be a dress (or
a skirt and blouse or sweater). Casual dress or clothing will not be
permitted.

Visitation Guidelines (by the Opposite Sex)
Men and women may visit in apartments of the opposite sex beginning at noon. All must leave in time to arrive at their own apartment
by curfew. Visitors need to be in compliance with the following
guidelines:
 There should always be at least three people in an apartment being visited by a member of the opposite sex.
 Blinds/drapes should be left open during the visit.
 Visitors of the opposite sex are not allowed in bedrooms at any
time.
 Visitors must have the approval of the roommates before being
allowed in the apartment.

Semiformal Dance Attire
Men: A tuxedo is optional, while church attire such as a sports coat
or dressy sweater is recommended. A dress shirt and tie, formal
half-collar shirt without tie, or turtleneck with a sport coat and dress
slacks are acceptable. Dress shoes are required. Athletic shoes, tshirts, kilts, jeans, and grubby attire are not appropriate.
Women: A formal dress is optional; Sunday dress is recommended
(a modest dress with the hemline or slit at or below the knee). Dress
shoes are required. Athletic shoes, sleeveless dresses, spaghetti straps,
low-cut necklines, unlined see-through materials, and open-back
dresses below the shoulder blades are not appropriate.

3. DRESS AND GROOMING STANDARDS

Special-Theme Dances
Dress should be consistent with university dress standards at all
events. Appropriate dress will be specified in the publicity prior to the
dance.

“Never lower your standards of dress. Do not use a special occasion
as an excuse to be immodest. When you dress immodestly, you send
a message that is contrary to your identity as a son or daughter of
God. You also send the message that you are using your body to get
attention and approval”. (For the Strength of Youth, pg.6-7).

Swim Wear
Brigham Young University Idaho invites students to refer to, For the
Strength of Youth when choosing their swimsuit attire. Specifically
we are taught, “Never lower your dress standards for any occasion.
Doing so sends the message that you are using your body to get
attention and approval and that modesty is important only when it is
convenient”.

Dress Standards for Men and Women Campus Attire
Men and Women Campus Attire
Immodest clothing is any clothing that is tight, sheer, or revealing
in any other manner. Men and women should be neat and clean and
avoid being extreme or inappropriately casual in clothing, hairstyle
and behavior (pg.7) Pants, slacks or jeans should not be patched,
faded, frayed or torn and must be ankle length. Hairstyles should be
clean and neat, avoiding extreme styles and unnatural colors. Caps
or hats should not be worn in buildings. Shoes should be worn in all
public campus areas. Flip-flops and other casual footwear are inappropriate on campus. Shorts are not appropriate campus attire. Do
not disfigure yourself with tattoos or body piercings.

Swimsuits should be modest in fabric, fit and style. Women’s suits
should cover the stomach. Men’s suits should sit at the waist.


Spiritual Environment
Brigham Young University–Idaho 2012-2013

4. ECCLESIASTICAL ENDORSEMENTS
The Board of Trustees of BYU requires every student attending the university to have an annual ecclesiastical endorsement from
the bishop of the ward in which he or she resides. The endorsement
fosters communication between students and ecclesiastical leaders. It
gives bishops an opportunity to review a student’s understanding of
and commitment to the Honor Code.
The bishop verifies the following:
 If LDS, the student is in full fellowship in the Church
 The student lives a chaste and virtuous life, including avoidance
of pornography, abstinence from sexual relations outside of marriage, and abstinence from homosexual behavior
 The student lives the Word of Wisdom by abstaining from alcoholic
beverages, tobacco, coffee, tea, and other harmful substances
 The student demonstrates appropriate and consistent church
activity
 The student is honest
The student verifies he or she is striving to live the Honor Code. Students will renew their endorsement during the first semester of their
assigned track and will be notified by e-mail.

5. CHURCH ATTENDANCE
One of the greatest advantages Brigham Young University-Idaho offers its students is the opportunity to be a member of a student ward
and stake. Sunday meetings, Monday night family home evenings and
Tuesday activity nights contribute to the spiritual and social growth
of each student. Progress toward spirituality and righteousness is
greatly enhanced through participation in the sacrament, priesthood,
Relief Society and auxiliary meetings provided each week. BYU’s most important mission is to encourage students to live the
principles and build testimonies of the restored gospel of Jesus Christ.
Attendance in your assigned ward meetings is a requirement for
continued enrollment. Students who do not attend their church
meetings may have their endorsements withdrawn.
Single students living in approved housing are expected to attend
their assigned YSA ward. Students whose home is in the immediate
community are expected to attend their home ward or assigned YSA
ward. Married students generally attend married-student wards but
may elect to attend community ward in which they reside based on
specific family needs.
Reported Violations of the Honor Code
Students and managers have assumed the obligation to “...encourage others in their commitment to comply with the Honor Code.”
Reported violations of the Honor Code will be investigated by
the Student Honor Office. The Student Honor Office will gather
pertinent information and determine if a reported student is in violation of the Principles of Personal Honor, the CES Honor Code, the
principles and standards of The Family: A Proclamation to the World,
For the Strength of Youth, university policies, and the principles of
The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, both on and off
campus.
